docs: deprecated notices for kargo (#3288)
akuity/kargo: docs/docs/60-new-docs/90-deprecations.md

---
sidebar_label: Deprecations and Breaking Changes

> description: Overview of breaking changes and deprecated features, their removal timeline, reasons for deprecation, and suggested replacements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A summary of deprecated features and breaking changes
```

---

# Deprecations and Breaking Changes

> As Kargo continues to evolve, features and functionalities are periodically updated,
> improved, or replaced to enhance the platform's capabilities. This page documents both
> deprecated features (scheduled for future removal) and breaking changes that have occurred
> across releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Kargo continues to evolve, features that have outlived their usefulness,
often having been replaced with better alternatives, are sometimes sunset. This
page documents past and pending deprecated features and breaking changes.
```

## Deprecations

The table below outlines features that are currently deprecated and have either been removed or are scheduled for removal.

| Feature | Deprecated In | Removed In | Replacement/Notes |
|---------|---------------|------------|-------------------|

> | Promotion Steps Fields | [v1.1.0](./80-release-notes/98-v1.1.0.md#-new-and-updated-promotion-steps) | Scheduled for v1.3.0 | Several fields in promotion steps, such as `prNumberFromStep` in the `git-wait-for-pr` step, are now deprecated. These fields were initially used to reference outputs from previous steps directly. With the introduction of expressions, these fields have become redundant, as expressions like `${{ outputs['open-pr'].prNumber }}` now offer a more flexible and straightforward way to achieve the same functionality. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Promotion Steps Fields | [v1.1.0](./80-release-notes/98-v1.1.0.md#-new-and-updated-promotion-steps) | Scheduled for v1.3.0 | Several fields in promotion steps, such as `prNumberFromStep` in the `git-wait-for-pr` step, are now deprecated. These fields were  originally the only way to reference outputs from previous promotion steps. With the introduction of expressions, these fields have outlived their purpose, as expressions like `${{ outputs['open-pr'].prNumber }}` present a more flexible and straightforward way reference the same output. [more info](./80-release-notes/98-v1.1.0.md#-new-and-updated-promotion-steps) |
```

| `helm-update-image` step | [v1.1.0](./80-release-notes/98-v1.1.0.md#-new-and-updated-promotion-steps) | Scheduled for v1.3.0 | Use the more flexible `yaml-update` step. |

> | Legacy Promotion Mechanisms | v0.9.0 | [v1.0.0](./80-release-notes/99-v1.0.0.md#%EF%B8%8F-breaking-changes) | Migrate to new promotion step system |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Legacy Promotion Mechanisms | v0.9.0 | [v1.0.0](./80-release-notes/99-v1.0.0.md#%EF%B8%8F-breaking-changes) | Migrate to promotion steps |
```

## Breaking Changes

> This section highlights significant changes that could disrupt existing implementations.
> It's essential to review these changes to ensure your configurations remain functional and up to date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section summarizes significant changes that create potential for disruption upon upgrade. __The Kargo team strives to keep changes of this nature to an absolute minimum.__
```

> | Change | Version | Impact | Migration Path |
> |--------|----------|---------|---------------|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Change | Version | Impact | Migration Path |
|--------|---------|--------|----------------|
```

> | Global Credential Store Changes | [v1.0.0](./80-release-notes/99-v1.0.0.md#%EF%B8%8F-breaking-changes) | Affects installations using `controller.globalCredentials.namespaces` | Either: 1) Provide custom RoleBindings for controller access, or 2) Enable `controller.serviceAccount.clusterWideSecretReadingEnabled` (not recommended) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Global Credential Store Changes | [v1.0.0](./80-release-notes/99-v1.0.0.md#%EF%B8%8F-breaking-changes) | Affects installations using `controller.globalCredentials.namespaces` | Manually create a `RoleBinding`s to permit controller access to "global" credential namespaces _or_ set `controller.serviceAccount.clusterWideSecretReadingEnabled` to `true` at install time (not recommended). |
```

> 
> ## What Next?
> 
> For detailed information on updates and changes, refer to the [release notes](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think we should just drop this.

---
sidebar_label: Deprecations
description: Overview of deprecated features, their removal timeline, reasons for deprecation, and suggested replacements.
---

# Deprecation Notices

As Kargo continues to evolve, features and functionalities are periodically updated,
improved, or replaced to enhance the platform's capabilities.
When these changes occur, older features are deprecated and scheduled for removal.

This page provides a list of features that have been deprecated, along with
their scheduled removal dates and suggested replacements, if any.

## Removed items by Release

### [v1.2.0](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/releases/tag/v1.2.0)

No deprecated features in this release. The focus was on introducing new features like `PromotionTasks`, `Soak Time`, and enhancements to

> promotion steps, along with UI and chart improvements.

Reviewer: Let's not bother saying anything about releases that _didn't_ either deprecate something or complete the removal of something previously deprecated.

> ### [v1.1.0](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/releases/tag/v1.1.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### [v1.1.0](./80-release-notes/99-v1.0.0.md#-new-and-updated-promotion-steps)
```

Applies in other places as well.

#### Deprecated Promotion Steps Fields

Several fields in promotion steps, such as `prNumberFromStep` in the
`git-wait-for-pr` step, are now deprecated. These fields were initially used
to reference outputs from previous steps directly.
With the introduction of expressions, these fields have become redundant,
as expressions like `${{ outputs['open-pr'].prNumber }}` now offer a more
flexible and straightforward way to achieve the same functionality.

These deprecated fields are scheduled for removal in **v1.3.0**.

#### Deprecated Step: `helm-update-image`

The `helm-update-image` step is deprecated in favor of the more flexible `yaml-update` step,
which works seamlessly with expressions.
This provides a broader and more versatile approach.

This step is scheduled for removal in **v1.3.0**.

Please refer to the [promotion steps reference documentation](https://docs.kargo.io/references/promotion-steps) for
detailed information about the deprecated promotion steps and fields.

### [v1.0.0](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/releases/tag/v1.0.0)

> No deprecated features in this release. The focus was on stability and completing the transition to flexible promotion steps started in v0.9.0.

Reviewer: Yes. I think this would work nicely with a few minor tweaks...

1. Let's change "current deprecations" to just "deprecations" so it's not mistaken to only cover things currently deprecated in the latest release but not yet removed. (I know you only need to read the table to see this isn't the case, but some people won't look at the table if the heading suggests it's not the information they're looking for.)

2. Let's count removal of the legacy promotion mechanisms as a deprecation rather than a breaking change. We _did_ deprecate them in v0.9.0 and promptly removed them in v1.0.0 so we weren't bringing any baggage into GA.

3. Let's change "Removal In" to "Removed In" to match the tense of "Deprecated In". In the case where something is _scheduled_ for removal in a release that isn't out yet, let's also make that clear with (for example) "Scheduled for v1.3.0".

3. Let's have version numbers be links to relevant sections of the release notes, where applicable.
